---
layout: post
title: Topguest is hiring a salesperson
author: Geoff Lewis
author-image: geoff-lewis.jpg
author-link: http://www.linkedin.com/pub/geoffrey-lewis/2/ba/49a
summary: We're seeking a relentlessly resourceful salesperson. You have past sales experience in a startup environment, and are hungry to make your mark. 
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

Topguest is an early-stage startup developing social loyalty solutions for the largest global loyalty programs in the world including Hilton HHonors, Priority Club and Virgin America Elevate. The consumer brand, Topguest.com, gives social travelers premier perks from top rewards programs. For loyalty program customers, the company provides a one-touch link between loyalty member databases and all the mobile-social services that matter, from Instagram to Facebook. The Company was founded in mid-2010, and is backed by Founders Fund and leading angel investors like Ron Conway, Keith Rabois and Naval Ravikant.

_Topguest is seeking a first-rate Salesperson. This team member will work closely with our CEO to accelerate Topguest's growth even further. The first 3 months in the role will be a trial period to gauge mutual fit._

*Core Requirements*

* You are monomaniacal and relentlessly persistent. You do not take no for an answer.
* Unique capacity to understand others and make them feel understood.
* Flawless execution gets your blood pumping. You'd rather execute than strategize.
* You're passionate and enthusiastic about the things that matter, and you don't get distracted by those that 
  don't.
* You take decisive action. You make quick decisions with minimal data, and would rather ask for forgiveness 
  than permission. 
* You've worked in a startup environment before, and loved it.
* You're a servant leader.
* Detail orientated and exceptionally organized.
* Past sales and/or business development experience, ideally in an early-stage startup environment (but not necessarily). 
* Solid understanding of the loyalty and travel industries.
* Engaged with the social media services Topguest integrates with, such as Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.

*Primary Responsibilities*

* Develop sales strategy for upstream product pipeline
* Identify prospective clients
* Penetrate the organization at prospective clients
* Sell prospective clients on the Topguest platform
* Respond to inbound partnership requests

*Just a few of the perks on offer*

* Beautiful offices in the heart of San-Francisco's SoMa district (remote work arrangements will be considered for exceptional candidates)
* Catered lunch daily, ample snacks and beverages 24/7
* Competitive compensation plus benefits
* Curious, driven, friendly and smart teammates

*Apply Now*

Please submit a short resume, cover email and links to your primary web presences to "jobs@topguest.com":mailto:jobs@topguest.com